TEMPLATES YAAAY (#2003)
codesandbox/codesandbox-client: packages/homepage/content/docs/7-environment.md

While Client Sandboxes have faster previews and offline availability, they lack in configurability. Container Sandboxes take longer to start up, but effectively behave much like a local development environment, allowing you to customize your build tools, set up servers to listen to incoming requests, etc.

## Client Environments

Client Sandboxes each have their own bundler attached to them which are configured to support a specific framework and emulate their official CLI tools. They are not one-to-one implementations and thus don't support advanced configuration like custom webpack configurations or ejecting, however they are designed to mirror the default behavior of the framework. If your project requires advanced configuration, try using a Container Sandbox instead.

Currently it is not possible to convert a Client Sandbox to a Container Sandbox. Support for this is on the roadmap, you can follow progress [here](https://github.com/codesandbox/codesandbox-client/issues/2111).

## Container Environment

> Container Sandboxes run by connecting to a Docker instance running on our servers. We use the [official Node docker image](https://hub.docker.com/_/node) in our container instances, meaning most Node packages should be supported out of the box. With Containers you can run your own bundlers such as Webpack and retain full control over it's configuration.

Reviewer: Great info! One syntax thingie

```suggestion
Container Sandboxes run by connecting to a Docker instance running on our servers. We use the [official Node docker image](https://hub.docker.com/_/node) in our container instances, meaning most Node packages should be supported out of the box. With Containers you can run your own bundlers such as Webpack and retain full control over its configuration.
```

Containers also support running NPM scripts defined in your `package.json`. We run a few of these scripts automatically to start up your server. See the list below for which scripts we run automatically and what their priority is:

- `dev`
- `develop`
- `serve`
- `start`

> While you can also lint your code using ESLint via the command line in containers, we don't currently support custom ESLint configs in the Editor itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While you can also lint your code using ESLint via the command line in containers, we don't currently support custom ESLint configs in the editor itself.
```

> Unlike Client Sandboxes, Containers also expose access to the Terminal, which allows you to run most commands you'd normally expect to be able to run in the command line. However, keep in mind that running certain commands which alter the filesystem of the container instance will cause the files shown in the Editor to become out of sync, such as manually running `yarn add` or running `git` commands.

Reviewer: We do actually sync the file system with the editor, so this might be misleading. I'd remove that remark (cc @lbogdan).

```suggestion
Unlike Client Sandboxes, Containers also expose access to the terminal, which allows you to run most commands you'd normally expect to be able to run in the command line.
```

---
title: 'Environment'
authors: ['Saeris']

> description: 'CodeSandbox uses different execution environments based on what type of Template you use.'

Reviewer: This is an interesting one. We currently auto-detect the execution environment from the files and folders of a sandbox (eg. dependencies include `vue-cli` -> `vue` environment). So I think it makes more sense to say that we detect it based on the files in a sandbox, maybe something like this?

```suggestion
description: 'CodeSandbox uses different execution environments based on the contents of a sandbox.'
```

---

## What is an Environment?

When using CodeSandbox, your code is evaluated and run by one of our built-in execution environments. These execution environments come in one of two types: Client and Container.

> Client environments run entirely inside of your browser and will continue to bundle your code even when you lose your connection to our servers. Containers on the other hand are executed server-side inside of a Docker container instance.

Reviewer: I love this explanation.

While Client Sandboxes have faster previews and offline availability, they lack in configurability. Container Sandboxes take longer to start up, but effectively behave much like a local development environment, allowing you to customize your build tools, set up servers to listen to incoming requests, etc.

Below is a list of each of our environments.

## Client Environments

> Client Sandboxes each have their own bundler attached to them which are configured to support a specific framework and emulate their official CLI tools. They are not one-to-one implementations and thus cannot be configured within CodeSandbox, however they are designed to mirror the default behavior of the framework. If your project requires advanced configuration, try using a Container Sandbox instead.

Reviewer: Great explanation, I want to mention that some client environments can be configured within CodeSandbox. We support some Parcel configuration and we support eg. custom babel config in CRA and other templates. Right now we word it in a way that suggests this is not possible, I think we should reword that bit.

Reviewer 2: Hmm, okay yeah I can just change it to "and only support some minor configuration such as babel". Any per-bundler configuration options should be explained in their specific sections.

> Client Sandboxes each have their own bundler attached to them which are configured to support a specific framework and emulate their official CLI tools. They are not one-to-one implementations and thus only support some minor configuration such as Babel, however they are designed to mirror the default behavior of the framework. If your project requires advanced configuration, try using a Container Sandbox instead.

Reviewer: I would still change the explanation here, we currently only don't support advanced configuration like webpack config changes. But things like aliases, `.env` files and `babel`/`postcss`/`tsconfig` changes are supported. It feels like we would downplay the client bundler by saying it only supports minor configuration. We could also turn it around like this:

```suggestion
Client Sandboxes each have their own bundler attached to them which are configured to support a specific framework and emulate their official CLI tools. They are not one-to-one implementations and thus don't support advanced configuration like custom webpack configurations or ejecting, however they are designed to mirror the default behavior of the framework. If your project requires advanced configuration, try using a Container Sandbox instead.
```

> Currently it is not possible to convert a Client Sandbox to a Container Sandbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently it is not possible to convert a Client Sandbox to a Container Sandbox. This is on the near roadmap, you can follow progress [here](https://github.com/codesandbox/codesandbox-client/issues/2111).
```

### Angular Bundler

> Based on Angular CLI

### CXJS Bundler

> Based on CXJS

### Dojo Bundler

> Based on @dojo/cli-create-app

### Preact Bundler

> Based on Preact CLI

### React Bundler

> Based on Create React App

### Reason Bundler

>

> ### Static

Reviewer: This is an interesting one, I think we can actually safely say that this is a separate environment from client and server environments. So you have

- client environment
- server environment
- static environment

What do you think?

Reviewer 2: Static is still under the "Client" category because it doesn't require a connection to our servers. True it doesn't have any bundler, but I think it's important that we keep the distinction between Client and Container. Plus Static is grouped under Client Templates in the modal.

Reviewer: For the static template our API server serves the files, so it needs to have a network connection with the API server to request the files (eg. if you request from `static.codesandbox.io/image.png` it would first go to our API server which returns the right file). However, there is also no container attached, we just serve as a file store.

Reviewer: We can do this later too, not necessary to split it out now. Food for thought!
